# 1. Introduction to Reddcoin
Hello, and welcome to the Reddcoin Documentation website. We hope to help you understand more about Reddcoin, its uniqueness philosophy, and the technology that defines it. Before getting too technical, we invite you to dive a little bit into the history of Reddcoin, learning why it was created, and the purposes behind it.
The key innovation of Reddcoin is the invention of next generation of Proof-of-Stake providing self-funding mechanism, a blockchain consensus protocol that provides efficient, sustainable security and user governance, allowing for a decentralized cryptocurrency network with a sane economic model and a core focus on security and sustainability. The social app, ReddID is name-based tipping across social networks with data stored safely in blockchain. No centralized sites & databases, no administrators control over your funds. Empower your online persona easily.
 
 
## Reddcoin Genesis: 2014
 
Reddcoin was announced on January 20, 2014 as a Scrypt Proof of Work (PoW) digital currency via a [Initial Public Coin Offering or (IPCO)](https://wiki.reddcoin.com/Initial_Public_Coin_Offering_(IPCO)) on BitcoinTalk.Org with a goal of becoming a new cryptocurrency fully integrated into social media. After raising upwards of $100,000 in funding through the IPCO to support development, Reddcoin was released to the public on February 2, 2014. In exchange for financial support, 5.45 billion reddcoins were distributed to IPCO investors over the course of 90 days beginning in mid-February.
On April 29, 2014 a major announcement was made on the Reddcoin community subreddit that Reddcoin would transition from PoW to Proof of Stake Velocity (PoSV). PoSV was a brand new algorithm designed to secure the Reddcoin network and was derived from Proof of Stake, first utilized by digital currency Reddcoin. This new algorithm was developed to reduce the environmental impact of securing the Reddcoin blockchain and encourage active participation and transactions amongst Reddcoin users.
 
Proof of Stake Velocity was implemented into the Reddcoin protocol in July 2014 and a transition was made from PoW to PoSV on August 1, 2014. As a result of the implementation of PoSV, the potential number of coins in circulation was reduced from a hard cap of 109 billion to approximately 27 billion with 5% annual inflation.
 
On September 6, 2014, Reddcoin Lead Developer Larry Ren announced plans for a new phase in Reddcoin's evolution. Citing the successful launch of PoSV over the previous month, Ren stated that Reddcoin had passed through it's first phase: ensuring a widespread distribution of coins through mining, the IPCO, and tipping; developing a lasting strategy to secure the Reddcoin network with PoSV; and building a talented team of developers to continue developments of Reddcoin into the future. With that, he introduced Phase II, termed Social X. Including the introduction of lightweight, staking Electrum and Mobile Wallets, Hierarchical Deterministic Wallets, and a brand new blockchain-level service called Redd-ID. This phase, expected to take 6 months or so, is aimed at making Reddcoin useful in mainstream use.
